content/blog/write-a-javascript-library-using-webpack-and-babel/index.md, before:

---
title: "Let's Write a JavaScript Library in ES6  using Webpack and Babel"
date: "2020-08-18"
coverImage: "cover.png"
author: "Hridayesh Sharma"
tags: ["JavaScript, WebPack, NodeJS"]
description: "Writing your own webpack configuration for a JavaScript library in ES6 and learn webpack along the way."
---

In this blog we will learn how to create our own webpack configuration to bundle a small JavaScript utility library using webpack and babel.

#### This blog will be divided into two parts:

- **Part I** will be about setting up the source code.
- **Part II** will be about setting up the webpack and babel configuration and testing our library.

Let's create the source code for our library. For that we will be create two utility functions into two separate files in our source folder.

#### Step 1 : Create a directory `demo` and run following command in it.

```bash
  $ npm init -y
```

The above command will create a `package.json` in your project root. I am using a --y to initialize it with default options.

Directory Structure

```bash
demo
  |-- src/
  |-- package.json
```

#### Step 2: Adding our source code.

Let's add our source code into `src` directory:

```bash
src
 |--index.js
 |--capital.js
 |--addDOMContent.js
```

Our utility library contains two functions `capital`, to capitalize a string and `addDOMContent`, to add content to a web page, each in it's own module.

`capital.js`

```javascript
function capital(string) {
  return (capitalizedString =
    string.substring(0, 1).toUpperCase() + string.substring(1))
}

export default capital
```

`addDOMContent.js`

```javascript
function addDOMContent(content) {
  const node = document.createElement("h1")
  node.innerText = content
  document.body.appendChild(node)
}

export default addDOMContent
```

Inside our `index.js`, we will import these two functions.

`index.js`

```javascript
import capital from "./capital"
import addDOMContent from "./addDOMContent"

export { capital, addDOMContent }
```

So far we got the source code ready but we still need to bundle it so that the browsers can understand and oh boy!, we need to support some older browsers too 🙄. Anyway, being responsible developers we are going to do that 😎.

#### Step 3: Let's install some of our project dev dependencies as they are only needed during development.

`$ npm i --save-dev webpack webpack-cli @babel/core @babel/preset-env babel-loader`

We need `webpack` to bundle our code and `webpack-cli` is a command-line tool that uses `webpack` to do the same. Also webpack requires `babel-loader` to transpile our ES6 code to ES5 before bundling (Remember, what I said about being responsible developers 😃).

#### Step 4: Now let's get our webpack and babel configuration in place. (We are almost there)

4.1. Create a `webpack.config.js` at the root of the project.

`webpack.config.js`

```javascript
const path = require("path")

module.exports = {
  entry: path.resolve(__dirname, "src/index.js"),
  output: {
    path: path.resolve(__dirname, "dist"),
    filename: "index_bundle.js",
    library: "$",
    libraryTarget: "umd",
  },
  module: {
    rules: [
      {
        test: /\.(js)$/,
        exclude: /node_modules/,
        use: "babel-loader",
      },
    ],
  },
  mode: "development",
}
```

There are a couple of things we need to understand about webpack configuration. Stay with me for a couple more minutes.

- `entry`: In order for webpack to know where to start with, it needs to know the entry point to our app.
- `module.rules`: Each file in `Node` is treated like a module. Webpack itself understands only Javascript and JSON modules. Since we want to transpile ES6, we need `babel-loader` and webpack needs to know the rules on how to process the Javascript using the given loader.
- `output`: After creating the bundle, webpack needs to know what name to give it and where to put it.`library` and `libraryTarget` are used to expose our library where `library` being the name,`$` here and `libraryTarget` is the environment we are targetting.
- mode: Webpack bundles code into either development mode (unminified) or in production(minified) mode. I am using a hard coded value here for the demo. You can set it using environment variables too.

  4.2. Create a `.babelrc` file at the root of the project.

`.babelrc`

```javascript
{
  presets: ["@babel/preset-env"]
}
```

`@babel/preset-env` let's us use the latest Javascript without any polyfills and syntax transforms.`babel-loader` uses `babel` under the hood.

By Now our Project Structure should look like this:

```bash
demo
|-- src
|   |-- index.js
|   |-- capital.js
|   |-- addDOMContent.js
|-- webpack.config.js
|-- .babelrc
|-- package.json
|-- node_modules
```

#### Step 5: One last step. I know I keep saying that but I promise this is last 😬.

We have added our source files, now let's add a `npm script` to build final code using webpack and modify the `main` property inside our `package.json` to point it to our bundled code.

`package.json`

```json
{
  "name": "demo",
  "version": "1.0.0",
  "description": "",
+  "main": "dist/index_bundle.js",
+  "scripts": {
+    "build": "webpack"
+  },
  "keywords": [],
  "author": "Hridayesh Sharma",
  "license": "ISC",
  "dependencies": {},
  "devDependencies": {
    "@babel/core": "^7.10.4",
    "@babel/preset-env": "^7.11.0",
    "babel-loader": "^8.1.0",
    "webpack": "^4.44.1",
    "webpack-cli": "^3.3.12",
  }
}

```

In `package.json` the `main` property is a direction to the entry point of the module that the package.json is describing.

#### Hurray! We have finally created our utility library using ES6.🥳🥳

Run `$npm run build` to generate the bundled code and use it in the next step.

#### Let's test our library now.

`index.html`

```html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8" />
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0" />
    <title>Demo</title>
  </head>
  <body>
    <script src="paht/to/index_bundle.js"></script>
    <script>
      console.log($)
      alert($.capital("hridayesh"))
      $.addDOMContent("Well It Works Fine!!!")
    </script>
  </body>
</html>
```

Save it and run it in your browser. You will see the name capitalized.

Commit message:

updated cover image for webpack blog and added link to code sample repo

content/blog/write-a-javascript-library-using-webpack-and-babel/index.md, after:

---
title: "Let's Write a JavaScript Library in ES6 using Webpack and Babel"
date: "2020-08-18"
coverImage: "cover.png"
author: "Hridayesh Sharma"
tags: ["JavaScript, WebPack, NodeJS"]
description: "Writing your own webpack configuration for a JavaScript library in ES6 and learn webpack along the way."
---

In this blog we will learn how to create our own webpack configuration to bundle a small JavaScript utility library using webpack and babel.

#### This blog will be divided into two parts:

- **Part I** will be about setting up the source code.
- **Part II** will be about setting up the webpack and babel configuration and testing our library.

Let's create the source code for our library. For that we will be create two utility functions into two separate files in our source folder.

#### Step 1 : Create a directory `demo` and run following command in it.

```bash
  $ npm init -y
```

The above command will create a `package.json` in your project root. I am using a --y to initialize it with default options.

Directory Structure

```bash
demo
  |-- src/
  |-- package.json
```

#### Step 2: Adding our source code.

Let's add our source code into `src` directory:

```bash
src
 |--index.js
 |--capital.js
 |--addDOMContent.js
```

Our utility library contains two functions `capital`, to capitalize a string and `addDOMContent`, to add content to a web page, each in it's own module.

`capital.js`

```javascript
function capital(string) {
  return (capitalizedString =
    string.substring(0, 1).toUpperCase() + string.substring(1))
}

export default capital
```

`addDOMContent.js`

```javascript
function addDOMContent(content) {
  const node = document.createElement("h1")
  node.innerText = content
  document.body.appendChild(node)
}

export default addDOMContent
```

Inside our `index.js`, we will import these two functions.

`index.js`

```javascript
import capital from "./capital"
import addDOMContent from "./addDOMContent"

export { capital, addDOMContent }
```

So far we got the source code ready but we still need to bundle it so that the browsers can understand and oh boy!, we need to support some older browsers too 🙄. Anyway, being responsible developers we are going to do that 😎.

#### Step 3: Let's install some of our project dev dependencies as they are only needed during development.

`$ npm i --save-dev webpack webpack-cli @babel/core @babel/preset-env babel-loader`

We need `webpack` to bundle our code and `webpack-cli` is a command-line tool that uses `webpack` to do the same. Also webpack requires `babel-loader` to transpile our ES6 code to ES5 before bundling (Remember, what I said about being responsible developers 😃).

#### Step 4: Now let's get our webpack and babel configuration in place. (We are almost there)

4.1. Create a `webpack.config.js` at the root of the project.

`webpack.config.js`

```javascript
const path = require("path")

module.exports = {
  entry: path.resolve(__dirname, "src/index.js"),
  output: {
    path: path.resolve(__dirname, "dist"),
    filename: "index_bundle.js",
    library: "$",
    libraryTarget: "umd",
  },
  module: {
    rules: [
      {
        test: /\.(js)$/,
        exclude: /node_modules/,
        use: "babel-loader",
      },
    ],
  },
  mode: "development",
}
```

There are a couple of things we need to understand about webpack configuration. Stay with me for a couple more minutes.

- `entry`: In order for webpack to know where to start with, it needs to know the entry point to our app.
- `module.rules`: Each file in `Node` is treated like a module. Webpack itself understands only Javascript and JSON modules. Since we want to transpile ES6, we need `babel-loader` and webpack needs to know the rules on how to process the Javascript using the given loader.
- `output`: After creating the bundle, webpack needs to know what name to give it and where to put it.`library` and `libraryTarget` are used to expose our library where `library` being the name,`$` here and `libraryTarget` is the environment we are targetting.
- mode: Webpack bundles code into either development mode (unminified) or in production(minified) mode. I am using a hard coded value here for the demo. You can set it using environment variables too.

  4.2. Create a `.babelrc` file at the root of the project.

`.babelrc`

```javascript
{
  presets: ["@babel/preset-env"]
}
```

`@babel/preset-env` let's us use the latest Javascript without any polyfills and syntax transforms.`babel-loader` uses `babel` under the hood.

By Now our Project Structure should look like this:

```bash
demo
|-- src
|   |-- index.js
|   |-- capital.js
|   |-- addDOMContent.js
|-- webpack.config.js
|-- .babelrc
|-- package.json
|-- node_modules
```

#### Step 5: One last step. I know I keep saying that but I promise this is last 😬.

We have added our source files, now let's add an `npm script` to build final code using webpack and modify the `main` property inside our `package.json` to point it to our bundled code.

`package.json`

```json
{
  "name": "demo",
  "version": "1.0.0",
  "description": "",
+  "main": "dist/index_bundle.js",
+  "scripts": {
+    "build": "webpack"
+  },
  "keywords": [],
  "author": "Hridayesh Sharma",
  "license": "ISC",
  "dependencies": {},
  "devDependencies": {
    "@babel/core": "^7.10.4",
    "@babel/preset-env": "^7.11.0",
    "babel-loader": "^8.1.0",
    "webpack": "^4.44.1",
    "webpack-cli": "^3.3.12",
  }
}

```

In `package.json` the `main` property is a direction to the entry point of the module that the package.json is describing.

#### Hurray! We have finally created our utility library using ES6.🥳🥳

Run `$npm run build` to generate the bundled code and use it in the next step.

#### Let's test our library now.

`index.html`

```html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8" />
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0" />
    <title>Demo</title>
  </head>
  <body>
    <script src="paht/to/index_bundle.js"></script>
    <script>
      console.log($)
      alert($.capital("hridayesh"))
      $.addDOMContent("Well It Works Fine!!!")
    </script>
  </body>
</html>
```

Save it and run it in your browser. You will see the name capitalized.

The complete code is available at [LoginRadius Engineering Blog Sample Repo](https://github.com/LoginRadius/engineering-blog-samples/tree/master/JavaScript/WebpackBabelJSLibrary)
