CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing

[Async Blog](https://www.loginradius.com/blog/async) is [MIT](LICENSE) licensed and accepts contributions via GitHub pull requests. This document outlines some of the conventions on development workflow, commit message formatting, contact points, and other resources to make it easier to get your contribution accepted.

## Getting Started

- Fork the repository on GitHub.
- Read the [blog post writing guideline](GUIDELINES.md) for writing and publishing your blog.
- If you find any bug/typo/fix in our existing blog posts, please create a pull request as mentioned in Contribution Flow.

## Contribution Flow

This is a rough outline of what a contributor's workflow looks like:

- Create a separate branch from `dev` branch to base your work.
- Make commits of logical units.
- Make sure your commit messages are in the proper format (see below).
- Push your changes to a topic branch in your fork of the repository.
- Make sure to proofread the content before submitting.
- Submit a pull request to the original repository.
- **Please ensure that you raise a PR on `dev` branch instead of `master`.**

#### Commit Messages

Please follow the below format while writing commit messages:

```
  title: One line description about your change
  <Blank Line>
  description: An optional description of your changes.
```

Thanks for your contributions!

## What we are looking for

- A well-articulated technology-related blog post.
- The post should be of minimum 1000 words.
- The topic must relate to technology/programming/coding.
- Post must not be published elsewhere.
- The author gets only these link(s) in bio, GitHub, StackOverflow, LinkedIn.
- The post should adhere to our [blog post writing guideline](GUIDELINES.md)

Please note we have a code of conduct, please follow it in all your interactions with the project.

## Code of Conduct

### Our Pledge

In the interest of fostering an open and welcoming environment, we as contributors and maintainers pledge to make participation in our project and our community a harassment-free experience for everyone, regardless of age, body size, disability, ethnicity, gender identity and expression, level of experience, nationality, personal appearance, race, religion, or sexual identity and orientation.

### Our Responsibilities

Project maintainers have the right and responsibility to remove, edit, or reject comments, commits, code, wiki edits, issues, and other contributions that are not aligned to this Code of Conduct, or to ban temporarily or permanently any contributor for other behaviors that they deem inappropriate, threatening, offensive, or harmful.

Commit message:

Added latest changes from develop

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing

[Async Blog](https://www.loginradius.com/blog/async) is [MIT](LICENSE) licensed and accepts contributions via GitHub pull requests. This document outlines some of the conventions on development workflow, commit message formatting, contact points, and other resources to make it easier to get your contribution accepted.

## Getting Started

- Fork the repository on GitHub.
- Read the [blog post writing guidelines](GUIDELINES.md) for writing and publishing your blog.
- If you find any bug/typo/fix in our existing blog posts, please create a pull request as mentioned in Contribution Flow.

## Contribution Flow

This is a rough outline of what a contributor's workflow looks like:

- Create a separate branch from `develop` branch to base your work.
- Make commits of logical units.
- Make sure your commit messages are in the proper format (see below).
- Push your changes to a topic branch in your fork of the repository.
- Make sure to proofread the content before submitting.
- Submit a pull request to the original repository.
- **Please ensure that you raise a PR against `develop` branch instead of `master`.**

#### Commit Messages

Please follow the below format while writing commit messages:

```
  title: One line description about your change
  <Blank Line>
  description: An optional description of your changes.
```

Thanks for your contributions!

## What we are looking for

- A well-articulated technology-related blog post.
- The post should be of minimum 1000 words.
- The topic must relate to technology/programming/coding.
- The blog post must not be published elsewhere.
- The author gets only these link(s) in bio: GitHub, Twitter, StackOverflow, and LinkedIn.
- The post should adhere to our [blog post writing guidelines](GUIDELINES.md)

Please note we have a code of conduct, which you shall follow in all your interactions with the project.

## Code of Conduct

### Our Pledge

In the interest of fostering an open and welcoming environment, we as contributors and maintainers pledge to make participation in our project and our community a harassment-free experience for everyone, regardless of age, body size, disability, ethnicity, gender identity and expression, level of experience, nationality, personal appearance, race, religion, or sexual identity and orientation.

### Our Responsibilities

Project maintainers have the right and responsibility to remove, edit, or reject comments, commits, code, wiki edits, issues, and other contributions that are not aligned to this Code of Conduct, or to ban temporarily or permanently any contributor for other behaviors that they deem inappropriate, threatening, offensive, or harmful.
