README.md, before:

# Engineering Portal

## About Respository

Engineers at LoginRadius are not limited to develop, test, deploy, and maintain the **LoginRadius Identity Platform**. They are highly motivated to build and learn something new every day. As a part of our Giving Back To Community initiative, we aim to share the same with the developers worldwide via our [Engineering Portal](https://www.loginradius.com/engineering/blog).

This repository contains the complete code used in the engineering portal written for the initiative mentioned above.


## About LoginRadius

LoginRadius empowers businesses to deliver a delightful customer experience and win customer trust.  Using the LoginRadius Identity Platform, you can offer a streamlined registration and login processes while protecting customer accounts and complying with data privacy regulations.

## How to contribute

Anybody who wants to write blog on technologies is always welcome! Please follow the [blog guidelines](GUIDELINES.md) while writing the blog and base pull requests against the `dev` branch as per [contributing guide](CONTRIBUTING.md).

Commit message:

updated README, Contribution and Blog Guidelines

README.md, after:

# Engineering Portal

Engineers at LoginRadius are not limited to develop, test, deploy, and maintain the **LoginRadius Identity Platform**. They are highly motivated to build and learn something new every day. As a part of our Giving Back To Community initiative, we aim to share the same with the developers worldwide via our [Engineering Portal](https://www.loginradius.com/engineering/blog).

This repository contains the complete code used in the engineering portal written for the initiative mentioned above.

## LoginRadius

[LoginRadius](https://www.loginradius.com/) empowers businesses to deliver a delightful customer experience and win customer trust. Using the LoginRadius Identity Platform, you can offer a streamlined registration and login processes while protecting customer accounts and complying with data privacy regulations to your customers.

## Running Project Locally

To run the project locally you need to have Nodejs and npm installed.

1. Install the Project Dependencies

```bash
  $ npm i
```

2. Run Gatsby Server

```bash
  $ npm run develop
```

## How to contribute

We appreciate all kinds of contributions from anyone, be it finding an issue or writing a blog.

Please check the [contributing guide](CONTRIBUTING.md) to become a contributor.

## License

[MIT](https://github.com/LoginRadius/engineering-portal/blob/master/LICENSE)
