content/blog/google-authentication-with-nodejs-and-passportjs/index.md, before:

---
title: Google authentication with Node.js and Passport.js
date: "2020-02-12"
coverImage: "google_cover.jpg"
author: "Puneet Singh"
tags: ["NodeJS","SocialLogin","OAuth"]
---

In this blog, we’ll be implementing authentication via Google in a Node.js web application. For this, we’ll be using [Passport.js](http://www.passportjs.org/), an authentication package for Node.js.

## Before You Get Started
This tutorial assumes you have:

*   Basic knowledge of HTML/CSS
*   A good understanding of JavaScript and Node.js
*   Latest Node.js version installed on your system

### Step 1: Create a Google client ID and client secret

We can create a  client ID and client secret using its [Google API Console](https://console.developers.google.com/). You need to follow below steps once you open Google API Console

- From the project drop-down, select an existing project, or create a new one by selecting Create a new project
- In the sidebar under "APIs & Services", select Credentials
- In the Credentials tab, select the Create credentials drop-down list, and choose OAuth client ID.
- Under Application type, select Web application.
- In Authorized redirect URI use http://localhost:3000/auth/google/callback
- Press the Create button and copy the generated client ID and client secret

**Note:** If Google doesn't support http://localhost:3000, then use http://127.0.0.1:3000

### Step 2: Initialize a node.js project with all the dependencies

First in an empty folder run the below command

```
npm init
```
It essentially just creates the package.json file with all the basic information you will provide. after that, we will install all the dependencies needed in our project 


- **express:**  Node.js framework to create a server and accept requests
- **ejs:**  To render HTML pages for login and profile
- **express-session:**  To save information from google in session and use it on the success page
- **passport:** Social Authentication package for Node.js
- **passport-google-oauth:**  Google authentication module by Passport.js

```
npm install express ejs express-session passport passport-google-oauth --save
```


### Step 3: Writing express server code to accept web requests

Create a file **index.js** in the root folder of your app and add the following code: 


```javascript
// index.js

/*  EXPRESS */

const express = require('express');
const app = express();
const session = require('express-session');

app.set('view engine', 'ejs');

app.use(session({
  resave: false,
  saveUninitialized: true,
  secret: 'SECRET' 
}));

app.get('/', function(req, res) {
  res.render('pages/auth');
});

const port = process.env.PORT || 3000;
app.listen(port , () => console.log('App listening on port ' + port));
```

Our web server has been set up, now we will add the code related to the passport at the bottom of the **index.js** file:


```javascript
// index.js

/*  PASSPORT SETUP  */

const passport = require('passport');
var userProfile;

app.use(passport.initialize());
app.use(passport.session());

app.set('view engine', 'ejs');

app.get('/success', (req, res) => res.send(userProfile));
app.get('/error', (req, res) => res.send("error logging in"));

passport.serializeUser(function(user, cb) {
  cb(null, user);
});

passport.deserializeUser(function(obj, cb) {
  cb(null, obj);
});
```


Now, at last, we are ready to implement Google Authentication in our app, Add the following code at the bottom of your **index.js** file, use your client Id and Secret instead of placeholders:


```javascript
// index.js

/*  Google AUTH  */
 
const GoogleStrategy = require('passport-google-oauth').OAuth2Strategy;
const GOOGLE_CLIENT_ID = 'our-google-client-id';
const GOOGLE_CLIENT_SECRET = 'our-google-client-secret';
passport.use(new GoogleStrategy({
    clientID: GOOGLE_CLIENT_ID,
    clientSecret: GOOGLE_CLIENT_SECRET,
    callbackURL: "http://localhost:3000/auth/google/callback"
  },
  function(accessToken, refreshToken, profile, done) {
      userProfile=profile;
      return done(null, userProfile);
  }
));
 
app.get('/auth/google', 
  passport.authenticate('google', { scope : ['profile', 'email'] }));
 
app.get('/auth/google/callback', 
  passport.authenticate('google', { failureRedirect: '/error' }),
  function(req, res) {
    // Successful authentication, redirect success.
    res.redirect('/success');
  });

```
**Note:** The callback URL should be the same as used in the google app configuration.

### Step 4: Creating a Login and Profile page

Create an ejs file under path **views/pages/auth.js**, it will render into a nice looking social login page:

```html
<!-- views/pages/auth.ejs -->
<!doctype html>
<html>
<head>
    <title>Google SignIn</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="https://stackpath.bootstrapcdn.com/bootstrap/4.4.1/css/bootstrap.min.css">
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="https://stackpath.bootstrapcdn.com/font-awesome/4.7.0/css/font-awesome.min.css">
    <style>
        body        { padding-top:70px; }
    </style>
</head>
<body>
<div class="container">
    <div class="jumbotron text-center text-primary">
        <h1><span class="fa fa-lock"></span> Social Authentication</h1>
        <p>Login or Register with:</p>
        <a href="/auth/google" class="btn btn-danger"><span class="fa fa-google"></span> SignIn with Google</a>
    </div>
</div>
</body>
</html> 
```

After it we wll create an ejs file under path **views/pages/success.js**, it will be used to show the user profile information we will get after authenticated by google

```html
<!-- views/success.ejs -->
<!doctype html>
<html>
  <head>
    <title>Google SignIn</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="https://stackpath.bootstrapcdn.com/bootstrap/4.4.1/css/bootstrap.min.css"> <!-- load bootstrap css -->
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="https://stackpath.bootstrapcdn.com/font-awesome/4.7.0/css/font-awesome.min.css"> <!-- load fontawesome -->
      <style>
          body        { padding-top:70px; }
      </style>
  </head>
  <body>
    <div class="container">
      <div class="jumbotron">
          <h1 class="text-primary  text-center"><span class="fa fa-user"></span> Profile Information</h1>
          <div class="row">
            <div class="col-sm-6">
                <div class="well">
                        <p>
                            <strong>Id</strong>: <%= user.id %><br>
                            <strong>Email</strong>: <%= user.emails[0].value %><br>
                            <strong>Name</strong>: <%= user.displayName %>
                        </p>
                </div>
            </div>
        </div>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html> 
```
**Note:** Here we are also using bootstrap and font-awesome css to make our web pages look good. 



We have finished building our social login page, let's run the application by below command


```js
node index.js
```

Once our server is running, we can see our social login page on http://localhost:3000/

![Social Authentication Page](social_login.jpg "Social Authentication Page")

We need to click on **SignIn with Google button**, which will redirect us to the google login page.

![Google Login](google_login.jpg "Google Login")

After login with our google credentials, it will redirect back to our application and on the success page, we can see the details of the logged-in user and can save this detail in a database for future use also.

![Social Profile Info](profileinfo_google.jpg "Social Profile Info")

As we have seen it is fairly easy to build a google social authentication system with Node.js and Passport.js, You can found the complete code used in this tutorial on our [Github Repo](https://github.com/LoginRadius/engineering-blog-samples/tree/master/NodeJs/GoogleAuthenticationPassport)

Commit message:

Added about LR para and updated description and title

content/blog/google-authentication-with-nodejs-and-passportjs/index.md, after:

---
title: Google OAuth2 Authentication in NodeJS
date: "2020-02-12"
coverImage: "google_cover.jpg"
author: "Puneet Singh"
tags: ["NodeJS","SocialLogin","OAuth"]
description: "Learn how to implement Google OAuth2 Authentication in NodeJS using Passport"
---

In this blog, we’ll be implementing authentication via Google in a Node.js web application. For this, we’ll be using [Passport.js](http://www.passportjs.org/), an authentication package for Node.js.

## Before You Get Started
This tutorial assumes you have:

*   Basic knowledge of HTML/CSS
*   A good understanding of JavaScript and Node.js
*   Latest Node.js version installed on your system

### Step 1: Create a Google client ID and client secret

We can create a  client ID and client secret using its [Google API Console](https://console.developers.google.com/). You need to follow below steps once you open Google API Console

- From the project drop-down, select an existing project, or create a new one by selecting Create a new project
- In the sidebar under "APIs & Services", select Credentials
- In the Credentials tab, select the Create credentials drop-down list, and choose OAuth client ID.
- Under Application type, select Web application.
- In Authorized redirect URI use http://localhost:3000/auth/google/callback
- Press the Create button and copy the generated client ID and client secret

**Note:** If Google doesn't support http://localhost:3000, then use http://127.0.0.1:3000

### Step 2: Initialize a node.js project with all the dependencies

First in an empty folder run the below command

```
npm init
```
It essentially just creates the package.json file with all the basic information you will provide. after that, we will install all the dependencies needed in our project 


- **express:**  Node.js framework to create a server and accept requests
- **ejs:**  To render HTML pages for login and profile
- **express-session:**  To save information from google in session and use it on the success page
- **passport:** Social Authentication package for Node.js
- **passport-google-oauth:**  Google authentication module by Passport.js

```
npm install express ejs express-session passport passport-google-oauth --save
```


### Step 3: Writing express server code to accept web requests

Create a file **index.js** in the root folder of your app and add the following code: 


```javascript
// index.js

/*  EXPRESS */

const express = require('express');
const app = express();
const session = require('express-session');

app.set('view engine', 'ejs');

app.use(session({
  resave: false,
  saveUninitialized: true,
  secret: 'SECRET' 
}));

app.get('/', function(req, res) {
  res.render('pages/auth');
});

const port = process.env.PORT || 3000;
app.listen(port , () => console.log('App listening on port ' + port));
```

Our web server has been set up, now we will add the code related to the passport at the bottom of the **index.js** file:


```javascript
// index.js

/*  PASSPORT SETUP  */

const passport = require('passport');
var userProfile;

app.use(passport.initialize());
app.use(passport.session());

app.set('view engine', 'ejs');

app.get('/success', (req, res) => res.send(userProfile));
app.get('/error', (req, res) => res.send("error logging in"));

passport.serializeUser(function(user, cb) {
  cb(null, user);
});

passport.deserializeUser(function(obj, cb) {
  cb(null, obj);
});
```


Now, at last, we are ready to implement Google Authentication in our app, Add the following code at the bottom of your **index.js** file, use your client Id and Secret instead of placeholders:


```javascript
// index.js

/*  Google AUTH  */
 
const GoogleStrategy = require('passport-google-oauth').OAuth2Strategy;
const GOOGLE_CLIENT_ID = 'our-google-client-id';
const GOOGLE_CLIENT_SECRET = 'our-google-client-secret';
passport.use(new GoogleStrategy({
    clientID: GOOGLE_CLIENT_ID,
    clientSecret: GOOGLE_CLIENT_SECRET,
    callbackURL: "http://localhost:3000/auth/google/callback"
  },
  function(accessToken, refreshToken, profile, done) {
      userProfile=profile;
      return done(null, userProfile);
  }
));
 
app.get('/auth/google', 
  passport.authenticate('google', { scope : ['profile', 'email'] }));
 
app.get('/auth/google/callback', 
  passport.authenticate('google', { failureRedirect: '/error' }),
  function(req, res) {
    // Successful authentication, redirect success.
    res.redirect('/success');
  });

```
**Note:** The callback URL should be the same as used in the google app configuration.

### Step 4: Creating a Login and Profile page

Create an ejs file under path **views/pages/auth.js**, it will render into a nice looking social login page:

```html
<!-- views/pages/auth.ejs -->
<!doctype html>
<html>
<head>
    <title>Google SignIn</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="https://stackpath.bootstrapcdn.com/bootstrap/4.4.1/css/bootstrap.min.css">
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="https://stackpath.bootstrapcdn.com/font-awesome/4.7.0/css/font-awesome.min.css">
    <style>
        body        { padding-top:70px; }
    </style>
</head>
<body>
<div class="container">
    <div class="jumbotron text-center text-primary">
        <h1><span class="fa fa-lock"></span> Social Authentication</h1>
        <p>Login or Register with:</p>
        <a href="/auth/google" class="btn btn-danger"><span class="fa fa-google"></span> SignIn with Google</a>
    </div>
</div>
</body>
</html> 
```

After it we wll create an ejs file under path **views/pages/success.js**, it will be used to show the user profile information we will get after authenticated by google

```html
<!-- views/success.ejs -->
<!doctype html>
<html>
  <head>
    <title>Google SignIn</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="https://stackpath.bootstrapcdn.com/bootstrap/4.4.1/css/bootstrap.min.css"> <!-- load bootstrap css -->
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="https://stackpath.bootstrapcdn.com/font-awesome/4.7.0/css/font-awesome.min.css"> <!-- load fontawesome -->
      <style>
          body        { padding-top:70px; }
      </style>
  </head>
  <body>
    <div class="container">
      <div class="jumbotron">
          <h1 class="text-primary  text-center"><span class="fa fa-user"></span> Profile Information</h1>
          <div class="row">
            <div class="col-sm-6">
                <div class="well">
                        <p>
                            <strong>Id</strong>: <%= user.id %><br>
                            <strong>Email</strong>: <%= user.emails[0].value %><br>
                            <strong>Name</strong>: <%= user.displayName %>
                        </p>
                </div>
            </div>
        </div>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html> 
```
**Note:** Here we are also using bootstrap and font-awesome css to make our web pages look good. 



We have finished building our social login page, let's run the application by below command


```js
node index.js
```

Once our server is running, we can see our social login page on http://localhost:3000/

![Social Authentication Page](social_login.jpg "Social Authentication Page")

We need to click on **SignIn with Google button**, which will redirect us to the google login page.

![Google Login](google_login.jpg "Google Login")

After login with our google credentials, it will redirect back to our application and on the success page, we can see the details of the logged-in user and can save this detail in a database for future use also.

![Social Profile Info](profileinfo_google.jpg "Social Profile Info")

As we have seen it is fairly easy to build a google social authentication system with Node.js and Passport.js, You can found the complete code used in this tutorial on our [Github Repo](https://github.com/LoginRadius/engineering-blog-samples/tree/master/NodeJs/GoogleAuthenticationPassport)
