content/best-ui-ux-design-tools-2020/index.md, before:

---
title: "Best Free UI/UX Design Tools/Resources 2020"
date: "2020-08-13"
coverImage: "ux-ui.jpg"
author: "Hitesh Kumawat"
tags: ["Design", "UX", "Tools"]
description: "As a designer, often wondered which new tools and utilities, other designers are using? So here is a list of all the tools and utilities famous around the world in designers."
---
# **Contents**

1. Inspiration
2. Colour
3. Components
4. Mockups
5. Design System
6. Font
7. Prototyping Tools
8. Free Stock Photos
9. Tools that speed up your workflow
10. Collaboration Tools

##  **Inspiration**

These are the websites where the world’s top design talents share their works and ideas.

### 1. **Behance -Top Creative Work On Behance**

 Showcase and discover the latest work from top online portfolios by creative professionals across industries.

 [www.behance.net](https://www.behance.net)

### 2. **Dribble - Discover the World's Top Designers & Creative Professionals**

Dribbble is where designers gain inspiration, feedback, community, and jobs and are your best resource to discover


[dribbble.com](https://dribbble.com)



### 3. **Awwwards - Website Awards(Best Web Design Trends)**


Awwwards are the Website Awards that recognize and promote the talent and effort of the best developers and designers.


[www.awwwards.com](https://www.awwwards.com)

### 4. **Mobile UI Design Patterns**

#### **Mobbin - Latest Mobile Design Patterns**

Check out the hand-picked collection of latest mobile design patterns from apps that reflect the best in design.

[mobbin.design.com](https://mobbin.design.com)

### 5. **UI Sources (Real App Interaction)**

### **UI Sources | Mobile Design Patterns and Interactions**


Over 500+ interactions from the world's best designed and highest-grossing apps.

[www.uisources.com](https://www.uisources.com)

### 6. **Bestfolios - UI/UX Design Portfolio Inspiration and Showcase**

The largest collection of the best portfolio websites from top designers in the industry.

[www.bestfolios.com](https://www.bestfolios.com)

### 7. **Muzil Design Inspiration**

Designers' Secret Source: all the design inspiration you need. Served fresh.

[muz.li](https://muz.li)

## Color Tools

Use these tools to explore different color schemes quickly.

### 1. **Adobe Color**

Create color schemes with the color wheel or browse thousands of color combinations from the Color community.

[color.adobe.com](https://color.adobe.com)

### 2. **Color Tool — Material Design**

#### **Color Tool — Material Design**

Create and share color palettes for your UI, and measure the accessibility of any color combination.

[material.io](https://material.io)

### 3. **Muzil Color Palette Generator**

#### **Color Palette Generator - Create Beautiful Color Schemes**

Search, discover, test and create beautiful color palettes for your projects

[colors.muz.li](https://colors.muz.li)

### 4. **Colorable (Color contrast tester)**

#### **#000000 on #fff9b0**

Contrast is the difference in luminance or color that makes an object (or its representation in an image or display)

[colorable.jxnblk.com](https://colorable.jxnblk.com)

### 5. **ColorBox**

#### **ColorBox by Lyft Design**

Colorbox is a color tool to produce color sets.

[www.colorbox.io](https://www.colorbox.io)

### 6. **Web Gradient**

#### **Free Gradients Collection by itmeo.com**

Come to WebGradients.com for 180 beautiful linear gradients in CSS3, Photoshop, and Sketch.

[webgradients.com](https://webgradients.com)

### 7. **Brand Colors**

#### **BrandColors — official brand color hex codes**

The biggest collection of official brand color codes around. Includes hex color codes for 500+ brands including…

[brandcolors.net](https://brandcolors.net)

### 8. **Color Hunt**

#### **Color Hunt — Popular Schemes for Designers and Artists**

A curated collection of the most popular and trendy color palettes. Get the perfect color ideas for your design.

[colorhunt.co](https://colorhunt.co)

## Components

Drawing illustration could be time-consuming, why not start with this template and use it as a draft/underlay and build your design on top of that?

### 1. **Undraw (Illustration)**

#### **unDraw | Colorful illustrations**

Open-source illustrations for every project you can imagine and create.

[undraw.co](https://undraw.co)

### 2. **Ouch by Icons8 (Illustration)**

#### **Free vector illustrations - Ouch.pics**

Creators who don't draw face the problem of the boring content for app screens, articles, landing pages, and emails…

[icons8.com](https://icons8.com)

### 3. **Opendoodle (Illustration)**

#### **Open Doodles - Free sketchy illustrations**

A library of sketchy illustrations of people free for personal and commercial use.

[www.opendoodles.com](https://www.opendoodles.com)

### 4. **Glaze (Illustration)**

#### **Glaze | Illustrations**

Free illustrations, for everything. Memorable products, brands, & presentations start with our curated royalty-fr

[www.glazestock.com](https://www.glazestock.com)

### 5. **UI Faces (Avatars for design mockups)**

#### **UI Faces - Avatars for design mockups**

An aggregator that indexes various free avatar sources that you can use in your design mockups by copy-paste, API, plugins…

[uifaces.co](https://uifaces.co)

##  Mockups

### 1. **Facebook Design — Devices (Various HQ Device Mockup for download)**

#### **Facebook Design — Devices**

Images and Sketch files of popular devices.

[facebook.design](https://facebook.design/)

### 2. **Free Mockup World**

#### **UI & UX - Best Free Mockups**

Big library of high quality best free UI & UX mockups

[www.freemockupworld.com](https://www.freemockupworld.com)

### 3. **Is Graphics**

#### **Free Mockups and Design Tools [PSD, Sketch, Figma]**

Huge collection of free mockups, patterns, illustrations, scene creators, DIY scenes, for Photoshop, Sketch, and Figma

[www.ls.graphics](https://www.ls.graphics/)

### 4. **The Mockup Club**

#### **The Mockup Club - Best Free Mockups**

A directory of the best free design mockups for Photoshop, Sketch, Figma, and InVision Studio.

[themockup.club](https://themockup.club/)

## Design Systems
### 1. **iOS Human Interface Guideline - Apple**

#### **Design - Apple Developer**

Find documentation and resources for designing great apps for Apple platforms.

[https://developer.apple.com](https://developer.apple.com)

### 2. **Material Design — Google**

Build beautiful, usable products faster. Material Design is an adaptable system-backed by open-source.

[material.io](https://material.io)

### 3. **Airbnb Design**

#### **Building a Visual Language**

Behind the scenes of our new design system, This article is part of a series on our new Design Language System.

[airbnb.design](https://airbnb.design/)

### 4. **Uber Design**

#### **Uber Brand**

With our company’s growth and new direction, we need a brand identity that is efficient to use, flexible across applications, and able to feature localized content in a globally consistent way. 

[brand.uber.com](https://brand.uber.com)

### 5. **Shopify Polaris**

Our style guide helps us collaborate across disciplines to build a great experience for all of Shopify’s merchants.

[polaris.shopify.com](https://polaris.shopify.com)

### 6. **Atlassian Design**

Use Atlassian’s end-to-end design language to create straightforward and beautiful experiences.

[atlassian.design](https://atlassian.design)

### 7. **Microsoft Design**

[www.microsoft.com](https://www.microsoft.com)

### 8. **Facebook Design Tools and Resources**

A collection of tools and resources from Facebook Design.

[facebook.design](https://facebook.design/)

## Font
### 1. **Google Fonts**

#### **Google Fonts**

Making the web more beautiful, fast, and open through great typography

[fonts.google.com](https://fonts.google.com)

### 2. **Typewolf**

#### **What’s Trending in Type · Typewolf**

Typewolf helps designers choose the perfect font combination for their next design project-features web fonts in the…

[www.typewolf.com](https://www.typewolf.com)

### 3. **DaFont**

#### **DaFont - Download fonts**

Archive of freely downloadable fonts. Browse by alphabetical listing, by style, by author or by popularity.

[www.dafont.com](https://www.dafont.com)






### 4. **Font Squirrel**

#### **Free Fonts! Legit Free & Quality “ Font Squirrel**

Font Squirrel scours the internet for high quality, legitimately free fonts.

https://www.fontsquirrel.com

### 5. **Font Inspiration**

#### **Typ.io: Fonts that go together**

Here at Typ.io, we're revealing designers' decisions for all to see; peeking under the hood of beautiful websites…

[typ.io](http://typ.io/)

## Prototyping Tool

Create a testable design prototype for your interviewee and get feedback

### 1. **Adobe XD**

#### **UI/UX design and collaboration tool | Adobe XD**

 Adobe XD is your UI/UX design solution for website and mobile apps creation. Design, prototype, and share. Try it now.

https://www.adobe.com

## 2. **Invision**

#### **InVision | Digital product design, workflow & collaboration**

InVision is the digital product design platform used to make the world's best customer experiences.

https://www.invisionapp.com

### 3. **Figma**

#### **Figma: the collaborative interface design tool.**

Figma helps teams create, test, and ship better designs from start to finish. Meet our customers Packed with design…

https://www.figma.com

### 4. **Sketch**

#### **The digital design toolkit**


Seamless integration to the Mac app makes saving to Cloud as easy as hitting ⌘S. From there, you can organize designs…


https://www.sketch.com

### 5. **Origami Studio**

#### **Origami Studio - Design Prototyping**


A new tool for designing modern interfaces, built and used by designers at Facebook

[origami.design](https://origami.design)

### 6. **Framer**

#### **Framer | A lightning fast interactive design tool.**

A framer is coming to the web. Learn more › Why Framer X Resources Framer X Framer is coming to the web. Learn more › The…

https://www.framer.com

### 7. **Principle**

#### **Principle**


The principle makes it easy to design animated and interactive user interfaces. Whether you're designing the flow of a…

https://principleformac.com


### 8. **Overflow**


#### **Meet Overflow**


The world's first user flow diagramming tool tailored for designers. Build and present beautiful user flow diagrams…

[overflow.io](https://overflow.io)

## Stock Photos

### 1. Pexels

#### **Free stock photos · Pexels**

Free stock photos you can use everywhere. ✓ Free for commercial use ✓ No attribution required

[www.pexels.com](https://www.pexels.com)


### **2.Unsplash**


#### **Beautiful Free Images & Pictures | Unsplash**

Beautiful, free images and photos that you can download and use for any project. Better than any royalty free or stock…

[unsplash.com](https://unsplash.com)


### **3. Burst By Shopify**

#### **Free Stock Photos: High-Res Images for Websites & Commercial Use**

Stunning stock images, perfect for blogs and websites Explore stock photography by category, all free for commercial…

https://burst.shopify.com


### **4. Moose**


#### **Moose - Free Stock Photos**

A collection of stock photography in a single style. Good for collages. Free for commercial use.

https://photos.icons8.com

## Tools that speed up your workflow
### 1. **Glitch Image/Gif/Video Generator**

#### **PHOTOMOSH**

Glitch images, videos, or webcam using WebGL effects. Save output as image, gif, or video.

https://photomosh.com

#### 2. **Duotone Image Generator**

#### **Duotone by ShapeFactory | Create Beautiful Free Duotones**

Find beautiful free duotone images to use in any project, or make custom duotone images by uploading your own image and…

duotone.shapefactory.co

### 3. **Compressor.io (Image compression tools)**

#### **Compressor.io - optimize and compress JPEG photos and PNG images**

Compressor.io is a powerful online tool for reducing drastically the size of your images and photos whilst maintaining…

https://compressor.io

### 4. **TinyPNG (Image compression tools)**

#### **TinyPNG - Compress PNG images while preserving transparency**

Excellent question! Let me give you a side by side comparison. Below are two photos of my cousin. The left image is…

https://tinypng.com

### 5. **Remove.bg (Background removal tool )**

#### **Remove Background from Image — remove.bg**

made with ♥ All trademarks, service marks, trade names, product names, logos, and trade dress appearing on our…

[www.remove.bg](https://www.remove.bg)

### 6. **Service Design Toolkit**

#### **Service Design Toolkit - Down­loads**

This toolkit is an introduction to the methodology of service design

[www.servicedesigntoolkit.orgs](https://www.servicedesigntoolkit.orgs)

## Collaboration Tools
### 1. **Zeplin (Collaboration & Handoff tool)**

#### **Zeplin**

Connected space for product teams. Handoff designs and style guides with accurate specs, assets, code…

[zeplin.io](https://zeplin.io)

### 2. **Realtime Board (Collaboration Tool)**

####  **Team collaboration software & online whiteboard for teams | Miro**

Scalable, secure, cross-device, and enterprise-ready team collaboration tool for distributed teams. Join 2M+ users &…

https://realtimeboard.com

Commit message:

Added one tool
Added one tool - Iconscout

content/best-ui-ux-design-tools-2020/index.md, after:

---
title: "Best Free UI/UX Design Tools/Resources 2020"
date: "2020-08-13"
coverImage: "ux-ui.jpg"
author: "Hitesh Kumawat"
tags: ["Design", "UX", "Tools"]
description: "As a designer, often wondered which new tools and utilities, other designers are using? So here is a list of all the tools and utilities famous around the world in designers."
---
# **Contents**

1. Inspiration
2. Colour
3. Components
4. Mockups
5. Design System
6. Font
7. Prototyping Tools
8. Free Stock Photos
9. Tools that speed up your workflow
10. Collaboration Tools

##  **Inspiration**

These are the websites where the world’s top design talents share their works and ideas.

### 1. **Behance -Top Creative Work On Behance**

 Showcase and discover the latest work from top online portfolios by creative professionals across industries.

 [www.behance.net](https://www.behance.net)

### 2. **Dribble - Discover the World's Top Designers & Creative Professionals**

Dribbble is where designers gain inspiration, feedback, community, and jobs and are your best resource to discover


[dribbble.com](https://dribbble.com)



### 3. **Awwwards - Website Awards(Best Web Design Trends)**


Awwwards are the Website Awards that recognize and promote the talent and effort of the best developers and designers.


[www.awwwards.com](https://www.awwwards.com)

### 4. **Mobile UI Design Patterns**

#### **Mobbin - Latest Mobile Design Patterns**

Check out the hand-picked collection of latest mobile design patterns from apps that reflect the best in design.

[mobbin.design.com](https://mobbin.design.com)

### 5. **UI Sources (Real App Interaction)**

### **UI Sources | Mobile Design Patterns and Interactions**


Over 500+ interactions from the world's best designed and highest-grossing apps.

[www.uisources.com](https://www.uisources.com)

### 6. **Bestfolios - UI/UX Design Portfolio Inspiration and Showcase**

The largest collection of the best portfolio websites from top designers in the industry.

[www.bestfolios.com](https://www.bestfolios.com)

### 7. **Muzil Design Inspiration**

Designers' Secret Source: all the design inspiration you need. Served fresh.

[muz.li](https://muz.li)

## Color Tools

Use these tools to explore different color schemes quickly.

### 1. **Adobe Color**

Create color schemes with the color wheel or browse thousands of color combinations from the Color community.

[color.adobe.com](https://color.adobe.com)

### 2. **Color Tool — Material Design**

#### **Color Tool — Material Design**

Create and share color palettes for your UI, and measure the accessibility of any color combination.

[material.io](https://material.io)

### 3. **Muzil Color Palette Generator**

#### **Color Palette Generator - Create Beautiful Color Schemes**

Search, discover, test and create beautiful color palettes for your projects

[colors.muz.li](https://colors.muz.li)

### 4. **Colorable (Color contrast tester)**

#### **#000000 on #fff9b0**

Contrast is the difference in luminance or color that makes an object (or its representation in an image or display)

[colorable.jxnblk.com](https://colorable.jxnblk.com)

### 5. **ColorBox**

#### **ColorBox by Lyft Design**

Colorbox is a color tool to produce color sets.

[www.colorbox.io](https://www.colorbox.io)

### 6. **Web Gradient**

#### **Free Gradients Collection by itmeo.com**

Come to WebGradients.com for 180 beautiful linear gradients in CSS3, Photoshop, and Sketch.

[webgradients.com](https://webgradients.com)

### 7. **Brand Colors**

#### **BrandColors — official brand color hex codes**

The biggest collection of official brand color codes around. Includes hex color codes for 500+ brands including…

[brandcolors.net](https://brandcolors.net)

### 8. **Color Hunt**

#### **Color Hunt — Popular Schemes for Designers and Artists**

A curated collection of the most popular and trendy color palettes. Get the perfect color ideas for your design.

[colorhunt.co](https://colorhunt.co)

## Components

Drawing illustration could be time-consuming, why not start with this template and use it as a draft/underlay and build your design on top of that?

### 1. **Undraw (Illustration)**

#### **unDraw | Colorful illustrations**

Open-source illustrations for every project you can imagine and create.

[undraw.co](https://undraw.co)

### 2. **Ouch by Icons8 (Illustration)**

#### **Free vector illustrations - Ouch.pics**

Creators who don't draw face the problem of the boring content for app screens, articles, landing pages, and emails…

[icons8.com](https://icons8.com)

### 3. **Opendoodle (Illustration)**

#### **Open Doodles - Free sketchy illustrations**

A library of sketchy illustrations of people free for personal and commercial use.

[www.opendoodles.com](https://www.opendoodles.com)

### 4. **Glaze (Illustration)**

#### **Glaze | Illustrations**

Free illustrations, for everything. Memorable products, brands, & presentations start with our curated royalty-fr

[www.glazestock.com](https://www.glazestock.com)

### 5. **Iconscout (Illustration)**

#### **Iconscout - Curated SVGs, Vector Icons, Illustrations, 3D graphics, and Lottie Animations**

Iconscout comes with integrated Plugins, conversion Tools, and simple, powerful Editors that enhance and streamline your workflow.

[iconscout.com](https://iconscout.com/)

### 6. **UI Faces (Avatars for design mockups)**

#### **UI Faces - Avatars for design mockups**

An aggregator that indexes various free avatar sources that you can use in your design mockups by copy-paste, API, plugins…

[uifaces.co](https://uifaces.co)

##  Mockups

### 1. **Facebook Design — Devices (Various HQ Device Mockup for download)**

#### **Facebook Design — Devices**

Images and Sketch files of popular devices.

[facebook.design](https://facebook.design/)

### 2. **Free Mockup World**

#### **UI & UX - Best Free Mockups**

Big library of high quality best free UI & UX mockups

[www.freemockupworld.com](https://www.freemockupworld.com)

### 3. **Is Graphics**

#### **Free Mockups and Design Tools [PSD, Sketch, Figma]**

Huge collection of free mockups, patterns, illustrations, scene creators, DIY scenes, for Photoshop, Sketch, and Figma

[www.ls.graphics](https://www.ls.graphics/)

### 4. **The Mockup Club**

#### **The Mockup Club - Best Free Mockups**

A directory of the best free design mockups for Photoshop, Sketch, Figma, and InVision Studio.

[themockup.club](https://themockup.club/)

## Design Systems
### 1. **iOS Human Interface Guideline - Apple**

#### **Design - Apple Developer**

Find documentation and resources for designing great apps for Apple platforms.

[https://developer.apple.com](https://developer.apple.com)

### 2. **Material Design — Google**

Build beautiful, usable products faster. Material Design is an adaptable system-backed by open-source.

[material.io](https://material.io)

### 3. **Airbnb Design**

#### **Building a Visual Language**

Behind the scenes of our new design system, This article is part of a series on our new Design Language System.

[airbnb.design](https://airbnb.design/)

### 4. **Uber Design**

#### **Uber Brand**

With our company’s growth and new direction, we need a brand identity that is efficient to use, flexible across applications, and able to feature localized content in a globally consistent way. 

[brand.uber.com](https://brand.uber.com)

### 5. **Shopify Polaris**

Our style guide helps us collaborate across disciplines to build a great experience for all of Shopify’s merchants.

[polaris.shopify.com](https://polaris.shopify.com)

### 6. **Atlassian Design**

Use Atlassian’s end-to-end design language to create straightforward and beautiful experiences.

[atlassian.design](https://atlassian.design)

### 7. **Microsoft Design**

[www.microsoft.com](https://www.microsoft.com)

### 8. **Facebook Design Tools and Resources**

A collection of tools and resources from Facebook Design.

[facebook.design](https://facebook.design/)

## Font
### 1. **Google Fonts**

#### **Google Fonts**

Making the web more beautiful, fast, and open through great typography

[fonts.google.com](https://fonts.google.com)

### 2. **Typewolf**

#### **What’s Trending in Type · Typewolf**

Typewolf helps designers choose the perfect font combination for their next design project-features web fonts in the…

[www.typewolf.com](https://www.typewolf.com)

### 3. **DaFont**

#### **DaFont - Download fonts**

Archive of freely downloadable fonts. Browse by alphabetical listing, by style, by author or by popularity.

[www.dafont.com](https://www.dafont.com)






### 4. **Font Squirrel**

#### **Free Fonts! Legit Free & Quality “ Font Squirrel**

Font Squirrel scours the internet for high quality, legitimately free fonts.

https://www.fontsquirrel.com

### 5. **Font Inspiration**

#### **Typ.io: Fonts that go together**

Here at Typ.io, we're revealing designers' decisions for all to see; peeking under the hood of beautiful websites…

[typ.io](http://typ.io/)

## Prototyping Tool

Create a testable design prototype for your interviewee and get feedback

### 1. **Adobe XD**

#### **UI/UX design and collaboration tool | Adobe XD**

 Adobe XD is your UI/UX design solution for website and mobile apps creation. Design, prototype, and share. Try it now.

https://www.adobe.com

## 2. **Invision**

#### **InVision | Digital product design, workflow & collaboration**

InVision is the digital product design platform used to make the world's best customer experiences.

https://www.invisionapp.com

### 3. **Figma**

#### **Figma: the collaborative interface design tool.**

Figma helps teams create, test, and ship better designs from start to finish. Meet our customers Packed with design…

https://www.figma.com

### 4. **Sketch**

#### **The digital design toolkit**


Seamless integration to the Mac app makes saving to Cloud as easy as hitting ⌘S. From there, you can organize designs…


https://www.sketch.com

### 5. **Origami Studio**

#### **Origami Studio - Design Prototyping**


A new tool for designing modern interfaces, built and used by designers at Facebook

[origami.design](https://origami.design)

### 6. **Framer**

#### **Framer | A lightning fast interactive design tool.**

A framer is coming to the web. Learn more › Why Framer X Resources Framer X Framer is coming to the web. Learn more › The…

https://www.framer.com

### 7. **Principle**

#### **Principle**


The principle makes it easy to design animated and interactive user interfaces. Whether you're designing the flow of a…

https://principleformac.com


### 8. **Overflow**


#### **Meet Overflow**


The world's first user flow diagramming tool tailored for designers. Build and present beautiful user flow diagrams…

[overflow.io](https://overflow.io)

## Stock Photos

### 1. Pexels

#### **Free stock photos · Pexels**

Free stock photos you can use everywhere. ✓ Free for commercial use ✓ No attribution required

[www.pexels.com](https://www.pexels.com)


### **2.Unsplash**


#### **Beautiful Free Images & Pictures | Unsplash**

Beautiful, free images and photos that you can download and use for any project. Better than any royalty free or stock…

[unsplash.com](https://unsplash.com)


### **3. Burst By Shopify**

#### **Free Stock Photos: High-Res Images for Websites & Commercial Use**

Stunning stock images, perfect for blogs and websites Explore stock photography by category, all free for commercial…

https://burst.shopify.com


### **4. Moose**


#### **Moose - Free Stock Photos**

A collection of stock photography in a single style. Good for collages. Free for commercial use.

https://photos.icons8.com

## Tools that speed up your workflow
### 1. **Glitch Image/Gif/Video Generator**

#### **PHOTOMOSH**

Glitch images, videos, or webcam using WebGL effects. Save output as image, gif, or video.

https://photomosh.com

#### 2. **Duotone Image Generator**

#### **Duotone by ShapeFactory | Create Beautiful Free Duotones**

Find beautiful free duotone images to use in any project, or make custom duotone images by uploading your own image and…

duotone.shapefactory.co

### 3. **Compressor.io (Image compression tools)**

#### **Compressor.io - optimize and compress JPEG photos and PNG images**

Compressor.io is a powerful online tool for reducing drastically the size of your images and photos whilst maintaining…

https://compressor.io

### 4. **TinyPNG (Image compression tools)**

#### **TinyPNG - Compress PNG images while preserving transparency**

Excellent question! Let me give you a side by side comparison. Below are two photos of my cousin. The left image is…

https://tinypng.com

### 5. **Remove.bg (Background removal tool )**

#### **Remove Background from Image — remove.bg**

made with ♥ All trademarks, service marks, trade names, product names, logos, and trade dress appearing on our…

[www.remove.bg](https://www.remove.bg)

### 6. **Service Design Toolkit**

#### **Service Design Toolkit - Down­loads**

This toolkit is an introduction to the methodology of service design

[www.servicedesigntoolkit.orgs](https://www.servicedesigntoolkit.orgs)

## Collaboration Tools
### 1. **Zeplin (Collaboration & Handoff tool)**

#### **Zeplin**

Connected space for product teams. Handoff designs and style guides with accurate specs, assets, code…

[zeplin.io](https://zeplin.io)

### 2. **Realtime Board (Collaboration Tool)**

####  **Team collaboration software & online whiteboard for teams | Miro**

Scalable, secure, cross-device, and enterprise-ready team collaboration tool for distributed teams. Join 2M+ users &…

https://realtimeboard.com
