content/blog/lets-take-meme-break/index.md, before:

---
title: "Let’s Take A MEME Break!!!"
date: "2020-09-04"
coverImage: "cover.png"
author: "Ashish Sharma"
tags: ["MEME","Programming","Humor"]
---

Programming is one of the fields which have a lot of funniest memes and dark jokes available. we have to deal with lots of bugs and errors/issues, which ruins the whole day. So, a little meme break is necessary for a Programmer, which will help in releasing the stress and anxiety of the whole day.

**“If debugging is the process of removing software bugs, then programming must be the process of putting them in – Edsger Dijkstra”**


## Our Developers has picked top 20 memes for the developer community

### 1. Always ready for new!!!

![](1.png) 

### 2. Nothing Changes With Time

![](2.png)

### 3. Heaviest Object In The Universe

![](3.png)

### 4. Perception!!

![](4.png)

### 5. Maths Always A hurdle !!

![](5.jpg)

### 6. I had a problem so I thought to use Java

![](6.png)

### 7. Avoid Handshakes.

![](7.png)

### 8. I’m Really Unsure About My Own Creation   

![](8.png)

### 9.  That Missing Fact

![](9.png)

### 10. Every IT Administrator.

![](10.png)

### 11. Imma Genius!

![](11.png)

### 12. My Logical Thinking as Programmer​​​. 

![](12.png)

### 13. HTML is a Programming Language

![](13.png)

### 14. Programmers while Sleeping​.


![](14.png)

### 15. Programmer Swag!!

![](15.png)

### 16. QA Life!!

![](16.png)

### 17. Infinite...

![](17.png)

### 18. Python Lover!!

![](18.png)

### 19. What's your address?

![](19.png)

### 20. Semicolon; 

![](20.png)

If you have better ones, reply in the comments below and we’ll include them.

Commit message:

update meme blog (#162)
* update meme blog

* update link

* Fix links

Co-authored-by: ashish8947 <ashish.sharma@loginradius.com>

content/blog/lets-take-meme-break/index.md, after:

---
title: "Let’s Take A MEME Break!!!"
date: "2020-09-04"
coverImage: "cover.png"
author: "Ashish Sharma"
tags: ["MEME","Programming","Humor"]
---

Programming is an excellent exercise for your brain as programmers deal with never-ending situations like bugs, compiler, issues, deadlines, languages, etc. During all these times, other than the phenomenal codes, we produce MEMEs and a hell lot of MEMEs

MEMEs can light the environment for every programmer in the world. On that note, there is a famous saying-

**“If debugging is the process of removing software bugs, then programming must be the process of putting them in – Edsger Dijkstra”**


## Here is our developer picked list of 21 complied MEME for you:

### 1. Always ready for new!!! - [Kunal](/blog/author/kunal/) 

![](1.png) 

### 2. Nothing Changes With Time - [Tanvi Jain](/blog/author/tanvi-jain/)

![](2.png)

### 3. Heaviest Object In The Universe - [Nitesh Jain](/blog/author/nitesh-jain/)

![](3.png)

### 4. Perception!! - [Vikram Jain](/blog/author/vikram-jain/)

![](4.png)

### 5. Maths Always A hurdle !! - [Mohammed Modi](/blog/author/mohammed-modi/)

![](5.jpg)

### 6. I had a problem so I thought to use Java - [Indrasen Kumar](/blog/author/indrasen-kumar/)

![](6.png)

### 7. Avoid Handshakes. - [Piyush Kumar](/blog/author/piyush-kumar/)

![](7.png)

### 8. I’m Really Unsure About My Own Creation - [Kheenvraj Lomror](/blog/author/kheenvraj-lomror/)   

![](8.png)

### 9.  That Missing Fact - [Priyadarshan Mohanty](/blog/author/priyadarshan-mohanty/)

![](9.png)

### 10. Every IT Administrator. - [Rashmi Jain](/blog/author/rashmi-jain/)

![](10.png)

### 11. Imma Genius! - [Abhimanyu Singh Rathore](/blog/author/abhimanyu-singh-rathore/)

![](11.png)

### 12. My Logical Thinking as Programmer​​​. - [Ankit Singh](/blog/author/ankit-singh/)

![](12.png)

### 13. HTML is a Programming Language - [Hitesh Kumawat](/blog/author/hitesh-kumawat/)

![](13.png)

### 14. Programmers while Sleeping​. - [Versha Gupta](/blog/author/versha-gupta/)

![](14.png)

### 15. Programmer Swag!! - [Gaurav Bewal](/blog/author/gaurav-bewal/)

![](15.png)

### 16. QA Life!! - [Rakesh Pareek](/blog/author/rakesh-pareek/)

![](16.png)

### 17. Infinite... - [Hridayesh Sharma](/blog/author/hridayesh-sharma/)

![](17.png)

### 18. Python Lover!! - [Aman Agrawal](/blog/author/aman-agrawal/)

![](18.png)

### 19. What's your address? - [Vijay Singh Shekhawat](/blog/author/vijay-singh-shekhawat/)

![](19.png)

### 20. Gamer and Programmer - [Chinmaya Pati](/blog/author/chinmaya-pati/)

![](21.png)

### 21. Semicolon; - [Govind Malviya](/blog/author/govind-malviya/)

![](20.png)

If you have better ones, reply in the comments below and we’ll include them.
