---
title: "Oauth2 Vs. JWT - Difference Explained"
date: "2022-02-15"
coverImage: "coverImage.png"
author: "Hitesh Jethva"
tags: ["Oauth2", "JWT"]
description: "In this blog post, we will explain the major differences between Oauth2 and JWT with detailed explanation and use cases"
---


# Oauth2 Vs. JWT - Difference Explained

## Introduction

For every user-oriented application, authentication and authorization
are crucial components. The two primary protocols that are extensively
used for web authentication and authorization are **OAuth2** and
**JWT**.

Prior to introducing OAuth2 and JWT, it is important to understand the
differences between authentication and authorization.

Authentication is the process of giving rights to an application for
accessing the necessary resources. For example, a user ID and password
combination to verify a user is authentication.

Authorization is the method of giving authenticated users access to use
the required resources. You can control access rights through
authorization by granting or denying permissions to an authenticated
user. The authorization process starts only after authentication is
successful.

This column will explain the **difference between OAuth2 and JWT**. But
before going into the differences part, let us understand what the
protocols mean.

## What Is OAuth2?

**OAuth2** is simply **version 2.0** of the OAuth protocol. It is better
known as a web authorization framework. In OAuth2, interoperability
between different applications has been simplified. The simplification
process is that the most popular social media platforms like Twitter and
Facebook use **OAuth version 2.0** for authorization. Even Google has
taken the same path.

OAuth2 allows you to access third-party websites with your Twitter,
Facebook, or Google account without the need of having to provide your
password repeatedly. The protocol is based on the concept of an access
token. So, when you authenticate yourself to a third-party application
using, let’s say, your Twitter account, the Twitter authorization server
issues an access token to the application with the approval of the
owner. This way, various applications can access your data hosted in the
resource server.

Thus OAuth2 is a simple way to interact and publish protected resource
data. In the case of Google, Gmail inbox, photos, contacts, etc. are the
resources. OAuth2 is a safe and straightforward way for people to access
their resource data.

For communication between the user and the authorization server,
**OAuth2 uses HTTPS**. This is done because of the confidentiality
factor of the data, like user credentials passing between the
applications.

## Benefits and Use Cases of OAuth2

The open authorization protocol OAuth 2.0 comes with its set of
advantages. Let us know more about the benefits and the use cases.

### Benefits:

  - > OAuth2 is a protocol that is very flexible. It depends on **SSL
    > (Secure Sockets Layer)** to ensure that the data between the
    > browsers and the web server remains confidential, thus saving user
    > access tokens.

  - > It provides restricted access to the client’s data and allows
    > access when the authorization tokens expire.

  - > With OAuth2, it is simpler to implement and allows stronger
    > authentication.

  - > The protocol can share data for clients without having to endanger
    > personal information.

  - > OAuth2 depends on SSL used to ensure that cryptography industry
    > protocols are followed to keep data safe.

### Use Cases:

OAuth version 2.0 separates authorization from authentication and
supports more than one use case that addresses multiple device
capabilities. It allows the right mixture of coarse and fine-grained
authorization. It has the ability to replace traditional Web Access
Management (WAM) policies. OAuth2 use case is also excellent for
revoking and restricting permissions when building applications that can
access particular APIs. The use cases ensure that only compliant and
managed devices can access particular APIs.

The use cases of OAuth2 include

  - > Web Server

  - > User Agent

  - > Native Application

  - > In-App Payment (Based on Native Application)

  - > A device with an Input System

  - > Client Password Credentials

  - > Assertion

  - > Access Token Exchange

## What Is JWT?

JWT is also known as **JSON Web Token**. It is a popular format of a
security token. **JWT** is a URL-safe, compressed means of representing
transfer claims between parties. In other words, JWT is basically a
**base64** URL-encoded string used for transferring secure data between
two applications.

JSON Web Token is used to safeguard request data in Web APIs. They are
also included in authorization HTTP headers as a section of the **Bearer
Authentication Scheme**. JWT is a self-contained and compact mechanism
that is trusted and digitally validated to transmit data between several
parties. They are effortless to use and mainly used to execute
**stateless authentication** mechanisms.

A JWT is represented as a series of encoded **JWT Header**, the JWT
Second Part, and the JWT Third Part in the said order separated by a
period ("."). When you sign JWT, the three parts of the JWT are the
three parts of a **JWS (JSON Web Signature)** used to act for JWT.

If you encrypt JWT, the three parts of the JWT are the three parts of
**JWE (JSON Web Encryption)** that acts for JWT. The JWT Header defines
the cryptographic operations that are performed on JWT claims. So, if
the JWT Header is a **JWS Header**, claims are then signed. However, you
encrypt the claims if the JWT Header is a **JWE Header**.

Below are some of the essential claims that should be a part of JWT
shared between the two parties.

  - > **iss (Issuer) Claim:** Recognizes the principal that is the
    > issuer of the JWT

  - > **sub (Subject) Claim:** Recognizes the principal that is the
    > subject of the JWT

  - > **aud (Audience) Claim:** Recognizes the recipient that JWT is
    > intended for

  - > **exp (Expiration Time) Claim:** Recognizes the expiry time after
    > which the JWT should not be accepted for processing

## Benefits and Use Cases of JWT

Let us now talk about the benefits of JWT.

### Benefits:

  - > JWT tokens can be used to authenticate clients on multiple
    > applications. All applications will have to share the same private
    > key to sign in and validate the tokens for this activity.
    > Additionally, every application token verification endpoint should
    > be mentioned under audience claims so that you can gain access to
    > the shared token. This results in users authenticating one time on
    > the server, and if authorization is successful, they can use all
    > applications that use the same JWT tokens.

  - > Since JWT tokens are stateless, session information is not stored
    > on the server, thus saving server memory consumption.

  - > With the JWT token, you ensure the authenticity of the source.
    > Data signing lets the receiver validate if the token was sent from
    > an authentic source. Thus, safety and trust between applications
    > and the users are ensured.

### Use Cases:

JWT use cases are constructed with a different approach. There are two
reasons for the same. First, the technology is very new, and its install
base is not significant. Second, the specifications of JWT are laid out
in a different way, and they are related differently.

A concise description of the use cases include:

  - > Application SSO

  - > SP Initiated SSO - OIDC

  - > idP Initiated SSO - OIDC

## OAuth2 Vs. JWT – Detailed Explanation

To understand **OAuth2 vs. JWT**, we need to understand **OAuth vs.
JWT**. While JWT is a token, OAuth is an authorization protocol that
uses JWT as a token. OAuth uses the user-side storage and the server
storage. However, if you want to log out, you would have to use OAuth2.
You cannot log out with the JWT token; OAuth2 is also required if you
want to allow an API to a third-party client.

### Opaque Auth Token

Unlike the JWT, only the user knows the format of the opaque auth token.
The opaque auth token is the prime key that uses user data to refer
instead of storing user claims and identities in the token.

### OAuth Grant Types

OAuth grant flows are also called OAuth flows. With OAuth grant types,
you determine the steps in the authentication of OAuth process flow and
how the user application will interact with the server at every stage.

With an access token, the user cannot request data from the server.

### Tokens

JWT or JSON Web Tokens are excellent for restricting database lookups,
whereas OAuth2 tokens are great for accessing client data.

### Access Tokens

The job of the **access token** is to check if the bearer of the token
is allowed to access the data they are trying to access. It is not
necessary to have a userID with the access token. All it needs to ensure
is the access tokens can access the API. It is also called a **Bearer
Token**.

### Refresh Tokens

The refresh token is only used against the authorization server. For
security purposes, the access tokens have a very short lifespan;
however, they cause problems for the client. Hence, a refresh token is a
particular type of token that you can use for a long time.

Since it is used only against the authorization server, it does not have
the risk of being stolen. The user can use it against the token endpoint
to get a fresh access token. It refreshes the access token and is hence
called **refresh token**.

### Stateless Authentication Mechanism

It has always been difficult for the developers to maintain the system's
state. Stateless applications are better for functional approaches
because they are better for multi-processing and unanimity. Stateless
authentication mechanisms are used for removing sessions and session
tokens.

In the JWT, when a client is authenticated, the server generates a
base64 access token instead of a session token and returns it to the
user. You can now use the token until it expires. Thus, the server would
not have to maintain which users are authenticated. Rather it has to
ensure if the access token sent is valid or invalid.

### Multi-application Authentication

OAuth2 gives **SSO** for multi-application authentication that allows
single sign-on for applications. However, OAuth2 cannot decipher how the
communication between the authentication server and resource server
takes place and in what format the user expects the output. Once the
authentication is done, the access code is returned to the client. The
client then sends the access code to the resource server to execute the
request.

In the case of **multi-application authentication** with JWT, you can
share access codes between several applications if all applications
share the same resources.

### Claims

**JWT claims** are information about a subject, and these are
represented in JSON format. The two types of claims include:

  - > **Reserved claim**: These claims are defined by JWT
    > specifications.

  - > **Custom claim**: These claims are named and defined by the user.

There are two types of custom claims:

  - > **Public claims**: These claims are used to store non-sensitive
    > data like names.

  - > **Private claims**: These claims are used to store sensitive data
    > like social security numbers.

OAuth2 also provides claims like the JWT with an added functionality
called **scopes**.

## Conclusion

Both OAuth2 and JWT have their advantages and use cases. While OAuth 2.0
is excellent in **session management**, JWT takes the lead in server to
**server authorization** and **API authentication**.

JWT tokens have a stateless mechanism, and the information is not in the
server; however, the token expires after a specified time. It is thus
not suitable for applications where the session should continue. JWT is
also not very secure when it comes to password management.

So, to decide which is better, you must select the protocol that will
benefit your use case rather than looking at the system's standard
features.
