---
title: "Linkers Vs Loaders"
date: "2020-10-30"
coverImage: "image.png"
author: "Ansh"
tags: ["Learning", "Coding", "Learning resources"]
---

### "Difference Between Linkers and Loaders"

        


Linkers and Loaders are the utility programs that play an important role in program execution.
Source code of a program passes through compiler, assembler, linker, loader in the given order, before execution, as shown in the figure.
The Assembler generates the object code of a source code and transfers it to the linker. 

 

### "TYPES   OF   LINKING"
### Static Linking
 Linking is performed before execution in this case. It takes collection of relocatable object file and command-line argument in order to produce fully linked object file that can be loaded and run.

A static linker performs two major tasks:
Symbol resolution – It associates each symbol reference with exactly one symbol definition, where each symbol has pre-determined task.
Relocation – It relocates code and data section and modifies symbol references to the memory location.


### Dynamic linking 
Dynamic linking is performed during run time. This linking is achieved by placing the name of a shareable library in an executable image.
As a result, there are more chances of errors and failures. It requires less memory space owing to the fact that numerous programs can share a single copy of the library.
 Here, we conduct code sharing in this approach. It means that we are using a same object a fixed number of times in the program.
 Instead of linking same object again and again into the library, each module shares the information of an object with some other module containing the same object. 
The shared library needed in the linking is stored in virtual memory to save Random Access Memory (RAM).  In this linking, we can also relocate the code for its smooth running. But we must know, that the entire code is not relocatable. 


### "LOADERS"

The program that has to be executed currently must reside in the main memory of the computer. It will be the responsibility of the loader (program in an operating system) to load the executable code generated by the linker, to the main memory for execution. It allocates memory space to the executable module in main memory.



### "TYPES   OF   LOADING"

Loading is of three types:

### Absolute loading:
 This approach loads the executable file of a program into a same main memory location every time. But it has some disadvantages such as the programmer must be aware of the assignment strategy for loading the modules to main memory.  If in case, the program is to be modified involving some insertion and deletion in the program, then all the addresses of the program have to be modified.
### Relocatable loading: 
In this approach, the compiler or assembler does not produce actual main memory address. Instead, it produces the relative addresses.
### Dynamic Run-Time loading:
 In this approach, the absolute address for a program is generated on executing the instruction of an executable module is. It is very flexible and the executable module can be loaded into any region of main memory. This can be interrupted in between and can be swapped out to the disk and back to main memory at a different main memory address.


CONCLUSION
1. Linkers and loaders together play a poignant role in executing the source code of a program. 
2. Linkers produce an executable module of source code while loaders load it to the main memory.
3. Linkers merge all object modules while loaders allocate memory space to them in main memory.
4. Linkers are classified into two categories- linkage editor and dynamic editor.
5. Loaders are classified into three categories- absolute loader, dynamic run time loader and relocating loader.
                                                













