---
title: "Why should Manual Testers switch to Automation"
date: "2021-10-13"
coverImage: "cover.png"
author: "Rakesh Pareek"
tags: ["automation vs manual testing", "automation testing"]
description: "Explained some important points to switch on automation testing from manual testing"
---

## Benefits of Automation Testing

- **Requirement of automation testing in the IT industry**: In the century of technology, companies are looking to beat the competition by delivering quality software faster to the market. It forces them to adopt today's streamlined workflows such as Agile, DevOps, so how companies can forget about automated testing.

  Below are the top-level benefits the IT's by introducing Automation Testing
  
    - **Cost-efficient**: Automated Testing allows you to execute thousands of test cases in lesser time than manual execution and it consumes less human resources. Ultimately It results in a reduced cost of the testing cycle.
    
    - **Regression Testing And Reusability**: In Continuous Delivery and DevOps practices, it is more important to regress the complete software even with minor bug fixes. Manual Regression testing can take a lot of time and effort on the other hand automation is capable to run all the automated cases in minutes or hours.
By reducing the amount of time spent on manual testing, automation testing frees time for both developers and testers time to focus more on quality use-cases.
    
    - **Helps in CI/CD**: Automated Testing becomes more important when we talk about Continuous Delivery and Deployment.
    
    - **Accurate Results**: Humans can make mistakes but the machine won’t. The Test results generated by automated testing are always more accurate than the human testers

     There are lots of other benefits to using automation testing like Robotics automation, AI-Bases automation capable to find the test cases and can sense the usability also, Language-Independent automation tools enable you to switch between frameworks at any point of time.
Load Testing by applying thousand of users at a time is not really possible by manual testing. But Automated load test script can be used to simulate thousands of users to a site.

- **Higher PayScale**: As automation testing requires programming knowledge, and the benefits of the automation testing to ITs result in a good pay scale for automation testers based on their industry experience.

## How to start

### How to choose automation framework or programming language

There are a number of paid and open-source test automation frameworks available in the market, below are some helpful questions to determine which framework you should choose to start your journey in automation testing.

- **Based on your prior programming experience** Your prior programming experience can be a key to start with automation. If you have some basic knowledge about Java, C#, or JavaScript, just go with it. Selenium is available in the binding of the above-mentioned language and is also available in ruby, python, and PHP. There are several other automation testing frameworks available in these languages such as Ruby, Python, Java, JavaScript and C#, 

- **Based on your interest in framework or language**: This is a good way to start with automation, explore your interest in programmings like Ruby, Python, Java, JavaScript, or C#

- **Research the current industry requirements of tools or frameworks**: Spend some time to research on IT industries current requirements, nowadays most of the companies develop the software on the concept of web services or APIs. So choosing the API testing frameworks may lead to a good idea. These frameworks are mostly easy to learn and available in most programming languages. 

- **Based on easiness**: Don't have any prior programming experience! not to worry :) There are lots of tools and frameworks easy to learn and implement as well such as Nighwatchjs, WebdriverIo in JavaScript and Selenium is also available in commonly used and loosely typed languages like JS, PHP

- **Codeless Platforms**: As the name says the `Codeless` is becoming popular in the QA community. Properties like Codeless, Interactive, and Easy to Learn making it popular. It minimizes the effort over the repetitive test cases. Codeless tools provide Interactive Drag and Drop, Record and Playback features to automate the functionalities. Basically, codeless tools generate the code or script for every action performed on UI,  so testers have the flexibility to use and modify those scripts as per their needs.
Below are some popular Codeless Tools:
  - Katalon Studio
  - TestCraft

### Start Automating
- **Find something to automate (functional application, API's)**:  There are lots of opensource projects available on the internet to test your automation skills, search for `Mercury newtours` It's an opensource demo developed by Mercury. `reqres` provides opensource fake functional rest APIs to learn and automate. Try out these APIs in `Postman` and try to automate the APIs and scenarios using any framework like `mocha` or `REST-Assured` 

- **Contribute to opensource**: Contributing to opensource is a good way to learn and enhance your skills. 
  - Start your own opensource project and ask for help from the community. 
  - Start answering on `community.loginradius.com` or `sqa.stackexchange`

<p align="center">
**Happy Automating** :)
</p>